docs/emails.md, before:

# Emails

## Custom Emails to Users

Each alert requires a text file for the `email_file`:

```yaml
##################################
## ZERO CPU UTILIZATION (ALERT) ##
##################################
zero-cpu-utilization-1:
  cluster: stellar
  partitions:
    - cpu
  email_file: "zero_cpu_utilization.txt"
  admin_emails:
    - admin@institution.edu
```

The location of the `email_file` is set in `config.yaml` by:

```yaml
email-files-path: /path/to/email/
```

Here is an example `email_file`:

```
$ cat /path/to/email/zero_cpu_utilization.txt
<GREETING>

Below are your recent jobs that did not use all of the allocated nodes:

<TABLE>

The CPU utilization was found to be 0% on each of the unused nodes. You can see
this by running the "jobstats" command, for example:

<JOBSTATS>

Please investigate the reason(s) that the code is not using all of the allocated
nodes before running additional jobs.

Replying to this automated email will open a support ticket with Research
Computing.
```

There are three "tags" in the text file above: `<GREETING>`, `<TABLE>` and `<JOBSTATS>`.
Each tag will be replaced by the corresponding value in Python when creating the email. The resulting email will appear as:

```
Hello Alan (u12345),

Below are your recent jobs that did not use all of the allocated nodes:

      JobID    Cluster  Nodes  Nodes-Unused CPU-Util-Unused  Cores  Hours
    62734245    della     4          3             0%          12    2.3 
    62734246    della     6          5             0%          12    2.4 

The CPU utilization was found to be 0% on each of the unused nodes. You can see
this by running the "jobstats" command, for example:

    $ jobstats 62734245

Please investigate the reason(s) that the code is not using all of the allocated
nodes before running additional jobs.

Replying to this automated email will open a support ticket with Research
Computing.
```

Tags can be placed anywhere in your `email_file`. For example, one can include a tag in the middle of a sentence:

```
Below are your jobs on <CLUSTER> that did not use all of the allocated nodes:
```

Each alert has a finite set of tags that may be used to generate custom emails. There are
a set of example email files in the `email` directory of the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/jdh4/job_defense_shield). It is
recommended that you copy these and modify them as you see fit. It might also be a good
idea to put them under version control along with `config.yaml` and `holidays.txt`.

## Testing the Sending of Emails to Users

If `config.yaml` exists, an administrator can see the output of an alert by running it:

```
$ python job_defense_shield.py --low-gpu-efficiency
```

One adds the `--email` flag to send emails to users:

```
$ python job_defense_shield.py --low-gpu-efficiency --email

```

For testing, one can add a second flag that will only send the emails to `admin_emails` and not the users:

```
$ python job_defense_shield.py --low-gpu-efficiency --email --no-emails-to-users
```

The `--no-emails-to-users` will also prevent violation log files from being updated. This allows administrators to test and modify the email messages in safety.

There is one alert that requires one extra step, which is [Cancel 0% GPU Jobs](alert/cancel_gpu_jobs.md). In this case, one should add the following to the alert definition:

```yaml
  do_not_cancel: True
```

Commit message:

Updates to zero-util-gpu-hours

docs/emails.md, after:

# Emails

## When Are Emails Sent?

By default, users can only receive an email for a particular instance of underutilization once per week. The email they receive will contain either the individual jobs or a summary for that week. This time window can be modified by the `--days` option. Note that users can received multiple emails about the same type of underutilization if there are multiple alerts covering different partitions or different clusters.

The `Email` column in the table below shows the number of emails that each user has received about this particular instance of underutilization:

```
                         GPU-Hours at 0% Utilization                          
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    User   GPU-Hours-At-0%  Jobs                 JobID                  Emails
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1  u12998        308         39   62266607,62285369,62303767,62317153+   1 (7)
2  u9l487         84         14   62301196,62301737,62301738,62301742+   0     
3  u39635         25          2                     62184669,62187323    2 (4)     
4  u24074         24         13   62303161,62303182,62303183,62303184+   0      
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Cluster: della
Partitions: gpu, pli-c, pli-p, pli, pli-lc
     Start: Wed Feb 12, 2025 at 09:50 AM
       End: Wed Feb 19, 2025 at 09:50 AM
```

The number in parentheses is the number of days since the last email was sent. For example, `2 (4)` means that the user has received 2 previous emails with the last one being sent 4 days ago.

## Sending Custom Emails to Users

Each alert requires a text file for the `email_file`:

```yaml
##################################
## ZERO CPU UTILIZATION (ALERT) ##
##################################
zero-cpu-utilization-1:
  cluster: stellar
  partitions:
    - cpu
  email_file: "zero_cpu_utilization.txt"
  admin_emails:
    - admin@institution.edu
```

The location of the `email_file` is set in `config.yaml` by:

```yaml
email-files-path: /path/to/email/
```

Here is an example `email_file`:

```
$ cat /path/to/email/zero_cpu_utilization.txt
<GREETING>

Below are your recent jobs that did not use all of the allocated nodes:

<TABLE>

The CPU utilization was found to be 0% on each of the unused nodes. You can see
this by running the "jobstats" command, for example:

<JOBSTATS>

Please investigate the reason(s) that the code is not using all of the allocated
nodes before running additional jobs.

Replying to this automated email will open a support ticket with Research
Computing.
```

There are three "tags" in the text file above: `<GREETING>`, `<TABLE>` and `<JOBSTATS>`.
Each tag will be replaced by the corresponding value in Python when creating the email. The resulting email will appear as:

```
Hello Alan (u12345),

Below are your recent jobs that did not use all of the allocated nodes:

      JobID    Cluster  Nodes  Nodes-Unused CPU-Util-Unused  Cores  Hours
    62734245    della     4          3             0%          12    2.3 
    62734246    della     6          5             0%          12    2.4 

The CPU utilization was found to be 0% on each of the unused nodes. You can see
this by running the "jobstats" command, for example:

    $ jobstats 62734245

Please investigate the reason(s) that the code is not using all of the allocated
nodes before running additional jobs.

Replying to this automated email will open a support ticket with Research
Computing.
```

Tags can be placed anywhere in your `email_file`. For example, one can include a tag in the middle of a sentence:

```
Below are your jobs on <CLUSTER> that did not use all of the allocated nodes:
```

Each alert has a finite set of tags that may be used to generate custom emails. There are
a set of example email files in the `email` directory of the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/jdh4/job_defense_shield). It is
recommended that you copy these and modify them as you see fit. It might also be a good
idea to put them under version control along with `config.yaml` and `holidays.txt`.

## Testing the Sending of Emails to Users

If `config.yaml` exists, an administrator can see the output of an alert by running it:

```
$ python job_defense_shield.py --low-gpu-efficiency
```

One adds the `--email` flag to send emails to users:

```
$ python job_defense_shield.py --low-gpu-efficiency --email

```

For testing, one can add a second flag that will only send the emails to `admin_emails` and not the users:

```
$ python job_defense_shield.py --low-gpu-efficiency --email --no-emails-to-users
```

The `--no-emails-to-users` will also prevent violation log files from being updated. This allows administrators to test and modify the email messages in safety.

There is one alert that requires one extra step, which is [Cancel 0% GPU Jobs](alert/cancel_gpu_jobs.md). In this case, one should add the following to the alert definition:

```yaml
  do_not_cancel: True
```
